{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 AndaleMono;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11260\viewh14440\viewkind0
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 CopperExport for iPhoto\
Version 0.2.1 - \cf2 Security fix, please see the "Server-side configuration" section\cf0 \

\f1\b0 February 24th, 2005.\
\
CopperExport for iPhoto is a plugin for iPhoto 4 and 5 which allows you to export pictures directly into a Coppermine gallery (http://coppermine.sf.net/).\
\
I would love to hear from you if you find it useful, or if you find something that does not work properly, or if you have any other comments or suggestions. See the email address at the bottom of this document.\
\
iPhoto 5 support has been incorporated, but I do not have iPhoto 5, so it has not been tested. Please drop me a line if you do.\
\
See the ChangeLog file for a detailed list of changes.\
\

\f0\b System Requirements
\f1\b0 \
\
CopperExport for iPhoto requires Mac OS X 10.3 Panther and iPhoto 4.x or 5.x.  iPhoto 2.x 
\f2\i may
\f1\i0  work, but has not been tested.  Versions of Mac OS X prior to 10.3 will certainly not work.\
\
It has been tested with Coppermine 1.3.2. Older versions may work, but have not been tested. See the notes below on optional (but recommended) server-side configuration.\
\

\f0\b Installation
\f1\b0 \
\
0. Quit iPhoto\
1. Locate the iPhoto application\
2. Open the Get Info window for iPhoto (File Menu -> Get Info)\
3. Disclose the "Plug-ins" section of the Get Info window.\
4. If you have a previous version of CopperExport installed, select it in the list and press "Remove..."\
5. Click "Add\'c9"\
6. Locate and select the folder "CopperExport.iPhotoExporter"\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Server-side configuration\

\f3\i \
Please note: 
\f2\b0 if you had installed 
\f4\i0 xp_publish.php
\f2\i  from CopperExport 0.1, please replace it with the new version to support setting the description when creating a new album.\

\f3\b \cf2 IMPORTANT: 
\f2\b0 The version of xp_publish.php distributed with CopperExport 0.2 and prior contained a bad security vulnerability. Please update to the new version!
\f1\i0 \cf0 \

\f0\b \

\f1\b0 CopperExport uses the existing "Windows XP export wizard" interface in Coppermine. Unfortunately, in the default distribution of Coppermine, this interface does not accept additional information like the title, description and keywords for a picture, or the description for new albums. If you have access to your Coppermine installation directory, you can make some small changes (4 lines) to enable this functionality.\
\

\f2\i If you cannot do not have the possibility of making these changes, you can still upload files, but the caption, description and keywords will not be applied, or the description for new albums.\

\f1\i0 \
Included in this release are two files:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f4 \cf0 xp_publish.php
\f1 : this is the file from release 1.3.2 of Coppermine, already with the necessary modifications. Simply replace the existing 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  file in your Coppermine installation directory with this one.\
\

\f4 xp_publish.php.cpg132.patch
\f1 : is a patch file containing the necessary changes (only 3 lines need to be changed). Copy the file to your Coppermine installation directory, log into the Coppermine server and run the following commands:\
\

\f4 cd /your/coppermine/directory\
patch -p0 < xp_publish.php.cpg132.patch
\f1 \
\
The result should be the same as if you had copied 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1 .\
In both cases, make sure you make a copy of the original 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  file before making any changes, so you can revert to it if anything goes wrong.\
\
The changes to 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  do not affect the capability of uploading things from Windows XP.
\f0\b \
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f0\b Source code availability\

\f1\b0 \
Source code is available - for now it is a zip file that you can also get from the download page. Soon I will set up a public Subversion repository.\
\

\f0\b Author\

\f1\b0 \
CopperExport for iPhoto was written by Diego Zamboni. It is based 
\f0\b very
\f1\b0  heavily in the FlickrExport plugin by Fraser Speirs (http://www.speirs.org/flickrexport).  Many thanks to Fraser for an excellent piece of code, and for releasing it as open source!\
\
CopperExport, just like FlickrExport, is licensed under the BSD License.\
\
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f3\i\b \cf0 Email:
\f1\i0\b0  copperexport@zzamboni.org\

\f3\i\b Home Page:
\f1\i0\b0  http://www.zzamboni.org/copperexport/\
}