{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 AndaleMono;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 CopperExport for iPhoto\
Version [[version]]\

\f1\b0 [[date]].\
\
CopperExport for iPhoto is a plugin for iPhoto 4 and 5 which allows you to export pictures directly into a Coppermine gallery (http://coppermine.sf.net/).\
\

\f0\b As of version 0.4.0, CopperExport is built as a universal binary. 
\f1\b0  I don't have an Intel-based Mac to test, but if you do, please let me know if it works correctly!\
\
I would love to hear from you if you find it useful, or if you find something that does not work properly, or if you have any other comments or suggestions. See the email address at the bottom of this document.\
\
See the ChangeLog file for a detailed list of changes.\
\

\f0\b \ul System Requirements
\f1\b0 \
\ulnone \
CopperExport for iPhoto requires Mac OS X 10.3 or later and iPhoto 4.x or 5.x.  iPhoto 2.x and iPhoto 6 
\f2\i may
\f1\i0  work, but has not been tested.  Versions of Mac OS X prior to 10.3 will certainly not work.\
\
It has been tested with Coppermine 1.3.2, 1.3.3 and 1.4.3. Older versions may work, but have not been tested. See the notes below on optional (but recommended) server-side configuration.\
\

\f0\b \ul Installation
\f1\b0 \
\ulnone \
1. Double click on the CopperExport.pkg package file.\
2. Follow the instructions of the installer.\
3. Apply the server-side configuration (see below) to be able to set photo titles, descriptions and keywords.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Server-side configuration\

\f3\i \ulnone \
Please note: 
\f2\b0 if you had installed 
\f4\i0 xp_publish.php
\f2\i  from CopperExport 0.1, please replace it with the new version to support setting the description when creating a new album.\

\f3\b \cf2 IMPORTANT: 
\f2\b0 The version of xp_publish.php distributed with CopperExport 0.2 and prior contained a security vulnerability. Please update to the new version!
\f1\i0 \cf0 \

\f0\b \

\f1\b0 CopperExport uses the existing "Windows XP export wizard" interface in Coppermine. Unfortunately, in the default distribution of Coppermine, this interface does not accept additional information like the title, description and keywords for a picture, or the description for new albums. If you have access to your Coppermine installation directory, you can make some small changes to enable this functionality.\
\

\f2\i If you cannot do not have the possibility of making these changes, you can still upload files, but the caption, description and keywords will not be applied, or the description for new albums.\

\f1\i0 \
In the cpg-patches folder, you can find the following files:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f4 \cf0 xp_publish.php.cpgXYZ
\f1 : this is the file from release X.Y.Z of Coppermine, already with the necessary modifications. Simply replace the existing 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  file in your Coppermine installation directory with the corresponding file.\
\

\f4 xp_publish.php.cpgXYZ.patch
\f1 : is a patch file containing the necessary changes. Copy the appropriate file to your Coppermine installation directory, log into the Coppermine server and run the following commands:\
\

\f4 cd /your/coppermine/directory\
patch -p0 < xp_publish.php.cpgXYZ.patch
\f1 \
\
The result should be the same as if you had copied 
\f4 xp_publish.php.cpgXYZ
\f1 .\
In both cases, make sure you make a copy of the original 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  file before making any changes, so you can revert to it if anything goes wrong.\
\
The changes to 
\f4 xp_publish.php
\f1  do not affect the capability of uploading things from Windows XP.
\f0\b \
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f0\b \ul Source code availability\

\f1\b0 \ulnone \
Source code is available through the Subversion source control system. You can browse it and download it from the project page at\
http://developer.berlios.de/svn/?group_id=3037\
\

\f0\b \ul Author\

\f1\b0 \ulnone \
CopperExport for iPhoto was written by Diego Zamboni. It is based in the FlickrExport plugin by Fraser Speirs (http://www.speirs.org/flickrexport).  Many thanks to Fraser for an excellent piece of code, and for releasing it as open source!\
\
CopperExport is released under the BSD License.\
\
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f3\i\b \cf0 Email:
\f1\i0\b0  copperexport@zzamboni.org\

\f3\i\b Home Page:
\f1\i0\b0  http://www.zzamboni.org/copperexport/\
}